Vishnu Ramachandran(10608766): I have worked mainly on the front-end of our Project. I used HTML, CSS and Java Script to design our ecommerce website. I used HTML to create the content's structure and to add text components. HTML page layouts have been created in the templates folder. JavaScript and Cascading Style Sheets are used to construct the vast majority of page content. CSS is used to takes care of background, color, layout and spacing styling. On the other hand, dynamic elements like sliders, pop-ups, and image galleries are available with JavaScript. These three are the fundamental languages that I used for front-end development.
I used sqlite3 as database to design the tables. The following tables were created:  product, customer, order, status, feedback and . These tables are converted to table forms in forms.py.
In our website, All of the items from the Product model are shown on the home screen along with their image, name, and price using a for loop. Two buttons are also created, one to see the product and the other to add it to the shopping cart. If the customers are not logged in, they cannot add the item to their cart. All they have to do is examine the goods. The add to cart button will be printed with the login information (index.html).
Customers may easily find the products they're looking for by using the search function in the navigation bar. Users can input any text in the search bar, and it will be saved in a variable and sent via a post request.
Customers can contact us or ask inquiries by completing a short form. There are two forms: one is for logged-in users, and the other is for non-registered users who nevertheless want to contact us. The user only needs to type their message if they are already logged in; otherwise, they must first enter their name, email address, and phone number (contactus.html and feedback_sent.html).
Finally, the buyer may view their order summary on the checkout page before placing their order, which is crucial. Last but not least, clients must complete the checkout information, which includes the precise address, city, zip code, etc., as well as their preferred payment method. Customers can then place their orders at that point (payment.html).
By selecting the shopping cart icon in the navigation bar, customers can see everything they have put in their cart. The users can then alter the item's amount based on their need (cart.html).
JavaScript is used in the add to cart buttons and in the payment session for the payment option to work. JavaScript also used to display the card details.

Vishnu Ramesh(10592005):My aim is to learn more about the back-end programming. My focus was on the following areas like Python programming, Django framework and some parts of GitHub also. HTML and CSS was also used to structure the websites.
I was working for the admin-end, in which I have included the dashboard for the user which holds the information like customer, product and order count. I have used the python libraries and functions to show the count. To show that count on screen I have used Render function to return the HTTP response.  Functions like @login required (), helps me to add the admin authentication so that the user can set his ID and password.  @Admin_add_product_view () function is defined in the code to add the product on website. We have added the functionality for changing status of order for which I have defines the function update_order_view (). 
I have made use of Django framework for make this website up and running. The URLs are established using functions like Include () to route the page to the intended receiver. I have primarily utilized the built-in Django APIs to send emails and to authenticate admin login. I have used Django as a temporary memory to display the description of different items offered. I have used different module of Django to display HTTP response.
First of all, I learn how to configure Git in our system using commands like git config. With the aid of the commit code command, we will be able to push the code onto the public repository once Git has been successfully installed on our PC. The registered user will be able to view the changed file and the person who made the modifications along with the date and time after the code is committed.

Dhivash Dutt Bawari(10613510):I have majorly focused on the backend part of the Speedy Delivery website. Mainly all the codes to run the website is written on python. Below are the technologies which I have used to build this website.

Python: I have used python programming language to perform several operations like displaying http response, adding product, admin sign up authentication and many more operation on website. By working on this project, I get to learn about the framework, libraries and functions which I have implemented on speedy delivery. I have used the function like render, redirect, login required, user passes test to construct the user page. Render is used to return the Httpresponse, Redirect () function allowed us to redirect user to the URL of our choice. I have included the admin dashboard in this project with the help of Django functions and that help us to make change like update, alter, delete entries as per the admin request.

Django: - The popularity of Django in developer’s community is especially for its fast and easy development. Django is a free and open-source python framework mainly used for web development.  The reason to select this framework is, as it has its own database, I get to know that Django has object- relational mapper (ORM) which helps us to abstract database which help us to process data without SQL codes. It also includes pre-built admin automatically generated user interface for Django models. Models are added to the Django admin using the register () function, which enables the user interface to create, remove, update, and query data for those models. I have added the add to cart functionality to the website by using Django features. Functions Like Include () is used to set the URL’S to direct the page to correct path. I have mainly used the inbuilt Django API’s for sending mails, for admin/customer login authentication. I have referenced python and Django from w3schools and tried to implement it on the certain areas of my websites which includes fetching the description of the customer.

GitHub: - As it was a group project, we were using public git (GitHub) to manage our code source and versioning, with regular commits. It was all new tool for me to understand but helps us to track our record as it holds history of the last updated code. However, GitHub is a wide concept and we explored its several features. Firstly, I get to know how to config Git in our system and it is done by the commands like git config. Once the Git is successfully installed in our system, we will be able to push the code on to the public git with the help of commit code command. Once the code is committed the register user will be able to see the updated file and who has made these changes with date and time. You can check the status of the file if it is already committed or not with Git status command. To sum up, there are many commands which helps us using while we were working with Git like git config, git init, git clone, git add, git commit, git diff, git reset, git status and many more commands. This project helps me to understand the importance of GitHub in corporate world GitHub is a platform where in we can work as a team and will be able to track our progress and to minimize the risk of code crash. 

I have learned and used different global libraries to make use of its inbuilt classes. I have learned basic concepts of programming for information system while developing the Speedy grocery website.

